[DOC] Restructure Pyroscope documentation and share content (#3798)
grafana/pyroscope: docs/sources/reference-server-api/index.md

---
description: Learn about the Pyrocope server API
menuTitle: "Reference: Server HTTP API"
title: Server HTTP API
aliases:
  - ../configure-server/about-server-api/ # https://grafana.com/docs/pyroscope/latest/configure-server/about-server-api/
weight: 650
---

# Server HTTP API

> Grafana Pyroscope server exposes an HTTP API for querying profiling data and ingesting profiling data from other sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana Pyroscope exposes an HTTP API for querying profiling data and ingesting profiling data from other sources.
```

## Authentication

Pyroscope doesn't include an authentication layer. Operators should use an authenticating reverse proxy for security.

In multi-tenant mode, Pyroscope requires the X-Scope-OrgID HTTP header set to a string identifying the tenant.

> This responsibility should be handled by the authenticating reverse proxy. For more information, refer to the [multi-tenancy documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/pyroscope/<PYROSCOPE_VERSION>/configure-server/about-tenant-ids/).

Reviewer 2: You could use active voice here.

Author: ```suggestion
The authenticating reverse proxy handles this responsibility. For more information, refer to the [multi-tenancy documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/pyroscope/<PYROSCOPE_VERSION>/configure-server/about-tenant-ids/).
```
